Foster brother of Mughal emperor Akbar, Adham Khan would become famous for leading a successful invasion on Malwa.
Not only this but he was known for his outrageous behavior that would eventually lead to his demise.
For example, after a successful invasion, Adham kept the majority of the spoils for himself while sending only a couple elephants back to Akbar.
It was a greedy move.
In this scene, which is painted by Sanwala, Adham Khan is married in 1552 during his fourth regnal year as general.
Akbar arranged and married him to Javeda Begum who was the daughter of Baqi Khan of Baqlan, a man that was for some time a secretary to the Mughal prince Mirza Hindal.
Emperor Akbar can be seen sitting in a throne in the upper middle of the folio.
To Akbar’s side is his foster mother Maham Anaga, her close proximity showing her importance in this scene.
Maham Anaga was Akbar’s wet nurse who saved his life after his uncle made plans to kill him as a child, risking her own life while doing so.
She was very committed to his welfare along with later on applying herself politically.
Maham played a very important role throughout Akbar’s life and rise to the throne.
It’s very possible without her powerful position her son Adham Khan would not have been appointed general.
This further underlines her importance and power.
Much later after Adham’s execution Maham would pass away due to the grief of losing her son.
Behind Maham Anaga stand Adham Khan and his bride gazing at each other.
In Adham's arm is a royal mace wrapped in many layers of fine textiles and fabrics.
This mace is a symbol of his high rank of general, as ornaments are given to show status.
Of course, It wouldn’t be a wedding without gifts. Princes and nobles would bring offerings to celebrate the wedding.
There gifts would be covered in textiles and fabrics in order to conceal the contents similar to wrapping paper.
Gold and gems were often showered upon the newly wed couples of the Moghul empire.
Mughal weddings were celebrated with extreme grandeur. Dancing, music and all sorts of festivities were part of the ceremony.
Here, women dance to music from the band which is full of beating drums, horns, and a set of symbols.
Besides music many would say the most important part of a wedding is the food. In Mughal tradition the feast was very significant.
The Akbarnama reads in regards to Adham’s wedding “In a short time preparations for a feast were made and the marriage took place.
The lofty disposition of the Shahenshah made this feast the occasion of a thousand favours.”
The Shahenshah is a title given to the persian emperor meaning “king of kings” who was the one that organized the lavish feast for Adham Khan’s wedding.
The wedding was a happy occasion before the impending events of war and execution.
The colours, details, and two page folio show this scene as one of great importance.
It’s shown this way even though the mention of Adham Khan’s wedding is only but a short paragraph long.
This could be further evidence of the importance of wedding ceremonies in the Mughal tradition.